README.md, before:

# My Personal Website

Since most of the website content is in Portuguese, I'm writing this README in English, as well as all other interactions in the repository.  
Feel free to submit pull requests to improve or evolve the content and the project structure! :D

## Tech Stack

This is a static website, so I'm using:
- Markdown as the foundation for the content;
- HUGO and Hextra to generate the website based on that content.

## Including New Content

HUGO makes it very easy to add new content. There are two main ways to do this: using the HUGO CLI commands or creating the files manually.

### HUGO CLI

TODO

### Manually

To manually include content, it’s preferable to place the files directly into the target repository following the desired layout. For example, the `content` folder is the root container, so the structure should follow it. In my current website, I maintain a Blog and a “Book” section, so each new piece of content goes into the appropriate folder.

Once the new content is defined, just place a markdown file named `_index.md` in the corresponding folder. When you commit and push the changes, GitHub Actions will handle the deployment automatically.

## Deployment

### GitHub Pages

A GitHub Actions workflow is provided in [`.github/workflows/pages.yaml`](./.github/workflows/pages.yaml) to [publish to GitHub Pages](https://github.blog/changelog/2022-07-27-github-pages-custom-github-actions-workflows-beta/) for free. 

For details, see [Publishing with a custom GitHub Actions workflow](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/configuring-a-publishing-source-for-your-github-pages-site#publishing-with-a-custom-github-actions-workflow).

Note: in the settings, make sure to set the Pages deployment source to **GitHub Actions**:

<img src="https://github.com/imfing/hextra-starter-template/assets/5097752/99676430-884e-42ab-b901-f6534a0d6eee" width=600 />

[Run the workflow manually](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/manually-running-a-workflow) if it's not triggered automatically.

### Netlify

[![Deploy to Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg)](https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/imfing/hextra-starter-template)

### Vercel

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fimfing%2Fhextra-starter-template&env=HUGO_VERSION)

Override the configuration:

<img src="https://github.com/imfing/hextra-starter-template/assets/5097752/e2e3cecd-c884-47ec-b064-14f896fee08d" width=600 />

## Local Development

Pre-requisites: [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/), [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install) and [Git](https://git-scm.com)

```shell
# Clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/imfing/hextra-starter-template.git

# Change directory
cd hextra-starter-template

# Start the server
hugo mod tidy
hugo server --logLevel debug --disableFastRender -p 1313
```

### Update theme

```shell
hugo mod get -u
hugo mod tidy
```

See [Update modules](https://gohugo.io/hugo-modules/use-modules/#update-modules) for more details.

Commit message:

include HUGO command in README.md

README.md, after:

# My Personal Website

Since most of the website content is in Portuguese, I'm writing this README in English, as well as all other interactions in the repository.
Feel free to submit pull requests to improve or evolve the content and the project structure! :D

## Tech Stack

This is a static website, so I'm using:

- Markdown as the foundation for the content;
- HUGO and Hextra to generate the website based on that content.

## Including New Content

HUGO makes it very easy to add new content. There are two main ways to do this: using the HUGO CLI commands or creating the files manually.

### HUGO CLI

```bash
hugo new content/blog/..../index.md
```

### Manually

To manually include content, it’s preferable to place the files directly into the target repository following the desired layout. For example, the `content` folder is the root container, so the structure should follow it. In my current website, I maintain a Blog and a “Book” section, so each new piece of content goes into the appropriate folder.

Once the new content is defined, just place a markdown file named `_index.md` in the corresponding folder. When you commit and push the changes, GitHub Actions will handle the deployment automatically.

## Deployment

### GitHub Pages

A GitHub Actions workflow is provided in [`.github/workflows/pages.yaml`](./.github/workflows/pages.yaml) to [publish to GitHub Pages](https://github.blog/changelog/2022-07-27-github-pages-custom-github-actions-workflows-beta/) for free.

For details, see [Publishing with a custom GitHub Actions workflow](https://docs.github.com/en/pages/getting-started-with-github-pages/configuring-a-publishing-source-for-your-github-pages-site#publishing-with-a-custom-github-actions-workflow).

Note: in the settings, make sure to set the Pages deployment source to **GitHub Actions**:

<img src="https://github.com/imfing/hextra-starter-template/assets/5097752/99676430-884e-42ab-b901-f6534a0d6eee" width=600 />

[Run the workflow manually](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/manually-running-a-workflow) if it's not triggered automatically.

### Netlify

[![Deploy to Netlify](https://www.netlify.com/img/deploy/button.svg)](https://app.netlify.com/start/deploy?repository=https://github.com/imfing/hextra-starter-template)

### Vercel

[![Deploy with Vercel](https://vercel.com/button)](https://vercel.com/new/clone?repository-url=https%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2Fimfing%2Fhextra-starter-template&env=HUGO_VERSION)

Override the configuration:

<img src="https://github.com/imfing/hextra-starter-template/assets/5097752/e2e3cecd-c884-47ec-b064-14f896fee08d" width=600 />

## Local Development

Pre-requisites: [Hugo](https://gohugo.io/getting-started/installing/), [Go](https://golang.org/doc/install) and [Git](https://git-scm.com)

```shell
# Clone the repo
git clone https://github.com/imfing/hextra-starter-template.git

# Change directory
cd hextra-starter-template

# Start the server
hugo mod tidy
hugo server --logLevel debug --disableFastRender -p 1313
```

### Update theme

```shell
hugo mod get -u
hugo mod tidy
```

See [Update modules](https://gohugo.io/hugo-modules/use-modules/#update-modules) for more details.
